DESIGN.md, before:

# About the Database
## Scope
The use of the database is primarily for healthcare workers to store information on their use of antibiotics.

Example datasets taken from [AMR (FOR R)](https://msberends.github.io/AMR/index.html).

Although the datasets taken as an example focus on the research of AMR and the microorganisms, this database focuses on storing and collecting the information of the patient by the health practicioner.

The data on the microorganism was simplified due to insufficient knowledge but taking into consideration their name, resistance, kingdom, and oxygen tolerance.
- Each microorganism from the [AMR (FOR R)](https://msberends.github.io/AMR/index.html) dataset have a unique fullname and ID
- The oxygen tolerance is either "aerobe", "anaerobe", "anaerobe/microaerophile", "facultative anaerobe", "likely facultative anaerobe", or "microaerophile".


To further investigate the misuse and overuse of the antibiotics, more data is stored about their:
- Unique ID and compound ID
- Name, brand name, synonyms and abbreviation are included as they can be known or referred differently according to locations
- Dosage; The different type of dose given by the dataset are "standard  dosage", "high dosage" and "uncomplicated uti"
- The bacteria they are resistant against

In the patient side of the dataset, the healthcare practitioner would be expected to record:
- location
    - to record the location of origin and residence of the patient.
    - a collection of cities and countries could be selected from the database
- details of the patients
    - name
    - email
    - age
- their signs and symptoms
    - anatomy
    - signs
    - symptoms
- The type of medication and their dosage
    - duration of antibiotic therapy
    - timestamp, to monitor the frequency the patient was given antibiotic therapy
- The differential diagnosis/ reason for prescription
    - Map to the common reasons but can insert other reasons too
- Follow up on the patient's condition and their compliance to the mediation
    - healed, improved, worsen, no change
    - compliant, defaulted, intermittent

Out of scope are :
- further details of microorganism such as their DNA, subspecies, etc.
- other non-antibiotic or antifungal related medication

## Functional Requirements
The expected users of the database are the healthcare practicioner prescribing or recording the use of antibiotics
- The users should be able to register the patient's information and record the medication they are taking, as well as their symptoms
- They would also see the history of the antibiotics previously prescribed by the patient and see the frequency, compliance, or any other complications
- Should the patient be allergic to a certain antibiotics, the user will also be notified when prescribing

The database might not have all the necessary data for research of AMR but for a person logging in as a researcher instead of the healthworker will have limited view to the patient's personal information

Out of the scope of the database is other medications not listed
- The database priotise on collecting and analysing information for antibiotics and antifungals

## Entities
<!>
In this section you should answer the following questions:

* Which entities will you choose to represent in your database?
* What attributes will those entities have?
* Why did you choose the types you did?
* Why did you choose the constraints you did?
<!>

`antibiotic_groups`: collection of unique groups of antibiotic
- `id`
    - Primary Key
    - `TINYINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL`
    - `TINYINT` is used because there are only 22 unique groups of antibiotics in the dataset, and this is unlikely to increase over 255, the maximum value for unsigned `TINYINT`
- `name`
    - short and concise group name based on WHONET and WHOCC
    - `VARCHAR(32) NOT NULL`

`antibiotics`: list of unique type of antibiotics
- `ab`
    - Antibiotic ID
    - The official EARS-Net (European Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Network) codes where available, unique
    - Primary Key
    - `CHAR(3) NOT NULL UNIQUE`
    - The official code for antibiotics are the unique combination of 3 letters, so the data type of `CHAR(3)` is used.
- `cid`
    - Compound ID as found in PubChem, unique
    - `INT UNSIGNED UNIQUE`
    - Although unique, some antibiotics in the dataset does not have a compound ID so they `NULL` value is allowed
- `name`
    - Official name as used by WHONET/EARS-Net or the WHO, unique.
    - `VARCHAR(64) UNIQUE`
- `group_id`
    - Foreign Key to `antibiotic_groups`'s `id`
    - `TINYINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL`

`abbreviations`: List of abbreviations for the antibiotics used in many countries
- `id`
    - Primary Key
- `ab_id`
    - Foreign Key to the unique ID of the antibiotic related to the `ab` column on the `antibiotics` table
- `abbr`
    - abbreviated name

`synonyms`: often trade names of a drug, as found in PubChem based on their compound ID
- `id`
    - Primary Key
- `ab_id`
    - Foreign Key to the unique ID of the antibiotic related to the `ab` column on the `antibiotics` table
- `name`
    - The name of the drug

## Relationships

## Optimisations
In this section you should answer the following questions:

* Which optimizations (e.g., indexes, views) did you create? Why?

## Limitations
In this section you should answer the following questions:

* What are the limitations of your design?
* What might your database not be able to represent very well?


write for a technical audience 
- explain why you made certain design choices
- neighbourhood of 1000 words
- describing the project and all aspects of its functionality

## entity relationship diagram
- can use Mermaid.js [live editor](https://mermaid.live/)
    - can create and export diagrams
- embed the image in the DESIGN.md

## video overview
- short video no more than 3 minutes
- begin with an opening section that display's:
    - project's title
    - name
    - GitHub and edX usernames
    - city & country
    - date video recorded

Commit message:

DESIGN.md abbreviations and synonyms

DESIGN.md, after:

# About the Database
## Scope
The use of the database is primarily for healthcare workers to store information on their use of antibiotics.

Example datasets taken from [AMR (FOR R)](https://msberends.github.io/AMR/index.html).

Although the datasets taken as an example focus on the research of AMR and the microorganisms, this database focuses on storing and collecting the information of the patient by the health practicioner.

The data on the microorganism was simplified due to insufficient knowledge but taking into consideration their name, resistance, kingdom, and oxygen tolerance.
- Each microorganism from the [AMR (FOR R)](https://msberends.github.io/AMR/index.html) dataset have a unique fullname and ID
- The oxygen tolerance is either "aerobe", "anaerobe", "anaerobe/microaerophile", "facultative anaerobe", "likely facultative anaerobe", or "microaerophile".


To further investigate the misuse and overuse of the antibiotics, more data is stored about their:
- Unique ID and compound ID
- Name, brand name, synonyms and abbreviation are included as they can be known or referred differently according to locations
- Dosage; The different type of dose given by the dataset are "standard  dosage", "high dosage" and "uncomplicated uti"
- The bacteria they are resistant against

In the patient side of the dataset, the healthcare practitioner would be expected to record:
- location
    - to record the location of origin and residence of the patient.
    - a collection of cities and countries could be selected from the database
- details of the patients
    - name
    - email
    - age
- their signs and symptoms
    - anatomy
    - signs
    - symptoms
- The type of medication and their dosage
    - duration of antibiotic therapy
    - timestamp, to monitor the frequency the patient was given antibiotic therapy
- The differential diagnosis/ reason for prescription
    - Map to the common reasons but can insert other reasons too
- Follow up on the patient's condition and their compliance to the mediation
    - healed, improved, worsen, no change
    - compliant, defaulted, intermittent

Out of scope are :
- further details of microorganism such as their DNA, subspecies, etc.
- other non-antibiotic or antifungal related medication

## Functional Requirements

The expected users of the database are the healthcare practicioner prescribing or recording the use of antibiotics
- The users should be able to register the patient's information and record the medication they are taking, as well as their symptoms
- They would also see the history of the antibiotics previously prescribed by the patient and see the frequency, compliance, or any other complications
- Should the patient be allergic to a certain antibiotics, the user will also be notified when prescribing

The database might not have all the necessary data for research of AMR but for a person logging in as a researcher instead of the healthworker will have limited view to the patient's personal information

Out of the scope of the database is other medications not listed
- The database priotise on collecting and analysing information for antibiotics and antifungals

## Entities

`antibiotic_groups`: collection of unique groups of antibiotic
- `id`
    - Primary Key
    - `TINYINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL`
    - `TINYINT` is used because there are only 22 unique groups of antibiotics in the dataset, and this is unlikely to increase over 255, the maximum value for unsigned `TINYINT`
- `name`
    - short and concise group name based on WHONET and WHOCC
    - `VARCHAR(32) NOT NULL`

`antibiotics`: list of unique type of antibiotics
- `ab`
    - Antibiotic ID
    - The official EARS-Net (European Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Network) codes where available, unique
    - Primary Key
    - `CHAR(3) NOT NULL UNIQUE`
    - The official code for antibiotics are the unique combination of 3 letters, so the data type of `CHAR(3)` is used.
- `cid`
    - Compound ID as found in PubChem, unique
    - `INT UNSIGNED UNIQUE`
    - Although unique, some antibiotics in the dataset does not have a compound ID so they `NULL` value is allowed
- `name`
    - Official name as used by WHONET/EARS-Net or the WHO, unique.
    - `VARCHAR(64) UNIQUE`
- `group_id`
    - Foreign Key to `antibiotic_groups`'s `id`
    - `TINYINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL`

`abbreviations`: List of abbreviations for the antibiotics used in many countries
- `id`
    - Primary Key
    - `SMALLINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL UNIQUE AUTO_INCREMENT`
    - 484 abbreviations in the dataset so `SMALLINT` is used
- `ab_id`
    - Foreign Key to the unique ID of the antibiotic related to the `ab` column on the `antibiotics` table
    - `CHAR(3) NOT NULL`
- `abbr`
    - abbreviated name
    - `VARCHAR(32) NOT NULL`

`synonyms`: often trade names of a drug, as found in PubChem based on their compound ID
- `id`
    - Primary Key
    - `SMALLINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL UNIQUE AUTO_INCREMENT`
    - 5933 synonyms in the dataset so `SMALLINT` is used
- `ab_id`
    - Foreign Key to the unique ID of the antibiotic related to the `ab` column on the `antibiotics` table
    - `CHAR(3) NOT NULL`
- `synonym`
    - The other name of the drug
    - VARCHAR(32) NOT NULL`

## Relationships

## Optimisations
In this section you should answer the following questions:

* Which optimizations (e.g., indexes, views) did you create? Why?

## Limitations
In this section you should answer the following questions:

* What are the limitations of your design?
* What might your database not be able to represent very well?


write for a technical audience 
- explain why you made certain design choices
- neighbourhood of 1000 words
- describing the project and all aspects of its functionality

## entity relationship diagram
- can use Mermaid.js [live editor](https://mermaid.live/)
    - can create and export diagrams
- embed the image in the DESIGN.md

## video overview
- short video no more than 3 minutes
- begin with an opening section that display's:
    - project's title
    - name
    - GitHub and edX usernames
    - city & country
    - date video recorded
